What is an inexpensive, fast and non-obnoxious way to validate a business idea?

Don’t spend $1 on your idea until you have done this…

I can’t stress how important this is, I didn’t do any of this when I first launched my first startup - the result it cost me $40k building something nobody wanted (I had some wins since then, but that sucked).

It might feel like a waste of time doing validation / customer research but I promise it will be worth it.

STEP 1: COMPLETE BUSINESS SNAPSHOT QUESTIONNAIRE

Q1 - Why are you launching this business / idea? Why does the world need this?

A strong why is important for 2 reasons:

It makes it much easier to sell your product
Provides motivation when things get tough (because they will get tough)
Side note: If you want all of these templates / hear about this in detail - click here - I just did a podcast about this.

Q2 - What is my product / service?

No rocket science here, just detail your product

Q3 - Who is the perfect customer?

Things to consider: Who are they? what goals do they have? common problems they struggle with? where do they hang out online / offline?

COMMON MISTAKE: My product is for everyone…

Even though your product could theoretically be used by everyone - The fastest way to grow a business is to "solve a specific problem for a specific group of people”

People see thousands of advertising messages a day - If your product is targeted to everyone, "it doesn’t jump off the page” and as a result it targets no-one.

Example: Say you’re a busy corporate guy looking to get fit and you see the following 2 ads

Ad 1: 8 week fitness program that can help anybody get fit quickly: includes all of your training plans to get you ripped fast, custom meal plan and weekly checkins
Ad 2: 8 week fitness program designed specifically for busy corporate guys: includes 30min workouts (that you can do in your lunch hour), Flexible meal plans that can be done even if you’re short on time / travelling and weekly checkins to hold you accountable.
If you’re a busy corporate guy you are going to choose Ad 2, every single time - because it solves your specific problems!

Q4 - What is the problem you are solving? (Or what is the value your product provides)?

In Q3 you highlighted your perfect customers problems, in this part I want you to get very specific about how your product solves this problem for your customer.

Q5 - How is it better than the old way?

People hate change! Your new business idea must have a STRONG reason for people to change.

Example: Organic wine that doesn’t give you a hangover

Before: Drink wine, get awful wine headache
After (with your new product): Drink organic wine, have a great time, no hangover the next day!
This organic wine example has a strong reason for people to change - you need to brainstorm what that is for your business

STEP 2: GET 20 YESSES

Go out into the marketplace and ask people if they would use your product to solve their problem.

Places to find people: social platforms, Facebook groups, direct Instagram messages, direct LinkedIn message, forums like quora & reddit, cold email outreach, phone calls, real life places where they hang out.
Note: I track this in a google sheet (it’s free)

It’s not perfect, but finding 20 people who would be interested in your idea is great signpost that you should proceed.

You can take this a step further and ask if they would be willing to pre-order your product / solution - a great example of this is Fieldbloom (survey software), they got 100 paying customers before they built their product. You can read about it here

SUMMARY:

As mentioned at the top I can’t stress how important this is! I didn’t do any validation prior to launching my first startup and it cost me thousands.

Please learn from my mistakes and spend time doing this.

If you want more information about this stuff / all of the document templates - click here - I just did a podcast about how to validate your business idea and created a bunch of template documents that you can download for free.

Reach out if I can help with any of this!

Regan Kirk

